Infrared wavelengths
are longer than visible light.
While infrared can't be detected by the human eye,
differences in pigments are revealed when using a filter,
one that blocks visible and ultraviolet wavelengths,
passing only the infrared.
So we're looking at a reflected infrared image
of the pigment charts.
We're gonna see some different responses of those pigments.
This is visible light, and then looking at infrared,
those whites do not respond differently within the infrared,
so we're not seeing a difference there.
But let's take a look at some of those blues.
So this the infrared image,
we're gonna switch back to the visible.
We can see some color differences in these.
And then we're also seeing some differences
in how the infrared wavelengths
are being absorbed and reflected.
So we see here Prussian blue is absorbing
that infrared radiation.
This is Prussian blue too.
But we have azurite, which is not absorbing quite as much.
Indigo, it's reflecting quite a bit,
so we are seeing those differences.
And you can do some processing
to really bring out those differences
and that's creating a combined image
of the visible light and the infrared.
And it's a false color infrared image.
And so we're seeing those differences
in how the pigments are responding to the infrared
with a color difference here.
So you see Prussian blue is turning this purpley blue,
and then indigo is a bright red.
And that can give us some information about characterizing
and differentiating those pigments.
(bright music)